.TH KLDCTL 1 "JANUARY 2026" "0.0.1-kneecap" "Kaleidux Manual"
.SH NAME
kldctl \- Control utility for the Kaleidux wallpaper daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kldctl
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kldctl
is the primary interface for interacting with a running
.B kaleidux-daemon
instance. It uses a Unix domain socket to send commands for wallpaper switching, playlist management, and status queries.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-socket \fI<SOCKET>\fR
Path to the daemon's Unix socket. Defaults to \fIXDG_RUNTIME_DIR/kaleidux.sock\fR or \fI/tmp/kaleidux-{USER}.sock\fR.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show version information.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print help information.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B status \fR(alias: \fBst\fR)
Display the current status of the daemon, including active wallpapers and playback state.
.TP
.B next \fR(alias: \fBn\fR)
Force the daemon to skip to the next wallpaper in the queue.
.TP
.B prev \fR(alias: \fBp\fR)
Switch back to the previously displayed wallpaper if history is available.
.TP
.B love \fI<PATH>\fR [\fI-m MULTIPLIER\fR]
Mark the specified file as "loved", increasing its selection frequency in the "loveit" sorting strategy.
.TP
.B unlove \fI<PATH>\fR
Remove the love status from a file, resetting its selection weight.
.TP
.B lovelist \fR(alias: \fBll\fR)
List all files currently in the love list.
.TP
.B pause
Pause video wallpaper playback.
.TP
.B resume
Resume paused video playback.
.TP
.B query \fR(alias: \fBq\fR)
Query connected outputs and their current content state.
.TP
.B reload
Request the daemon to reload its configuration file from disk.
.TP
.B kill
Instruct the daemon to shut down gracefully.
.TP
.B playlist \fI<SUBCOMMAND>\fR
Manage content playlists. Subcommands include: \fBcreate\fR, \fBadd\fR, \fBremove\fR, \fBload\fR, \fBlist\fR, \fBdelete\fR.
.TP
.B blacklist \fI<SUBCOMMAND>\fR
Manage the blacklist of files to exclude from rotation. Subcommands include: \fBadd\fR, \fBremove\fR, \fBlist\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kaleidux-daemon (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Mjoyufull <https://github.com/Mjoyufull/Kaleidux>
